topics-and-advance-readings/README.md, before:

Topics & Advance Readings
=========================

In advance of the [Rebooting the Web-of-Trust DesignShop](https://github.com/WebOfTrustInfo/rebooting-the-web-of-trust) on November 3rd & 4th, all participants were requested to submit a 1 or 2 page topics paper to be shared with other attendees on either:
* A specific problem that you'd like to solve with a web-of-trust solution, and why current solutions (pgp or ca-based pki) can't address the problem?
* A specific solution related to the web-of-trust that you'd like others to use or contribute to?

The topic papers submitted were:

* **[Attempts at common terminology for digital identity systems](shared_terminology_for_digital_identity_systems.md)** - by Christian Lundkvist - *[@ChrisLundkvist](https://twitter.com/chrislundkvist) \<christian.lundkvist@consensys.net>*
* **[Authorities vs. Peers: Pain Points in Security](authorities-vs-peers--pain-points-in-security.md)** - by Christopher Allen *[@ChristopherA](https://twitter.com/ChristopherA) \<ChristopherA@LifeWithAlacrity.com\>* & Shannon Appelcline *[@Appelcline](https://twitter.com/Appelcline) \<ShannonA@skotos.net\>*
* **[Avoiding Confused Deputy Attack Using Capabilities](AvoidingConfusedDeputyAttackUsingCapabilities.md)** - by Tyler Close *\<tyler.close@gmail.com\>*
* **[Binding Identity in a Decentralized System](binding-identity-in-decentralized-system.md)** - Wayne Thayer *[@WThayer](https://twitter.com/wthayer) \<wthayer@gmail.com\>*
* **[Blockchain-based Trust for Software Components](code-and-file-signing.adoc)** - by Sean Gilligan *[@msgilligan](https://twitter.com/msgilligan) \<sean@msgilligan.com\>*
* **[Blockchain Tech Opportunities in the Web-of-Trust](blockchain-opportunities.txt)** - by Peter Todd *[@PeterToddBTC](https://twitter.com/PeterToddBTC) \<pete@petertodd.org\>*
* **[Building a Web of Trust for E-commerce](decentralized_e-commerce.md)** - by Michael Folkson *[@michaelfolkson](https://twitter.com/michaelfolkson) \<michaelfolkson@gmail.com\>*
* **[Cool hack with XDI graphs, blockstore, link contracts, and cryptographic identifiers](cool-hack-xdi-blockstore-bip32.md)** - by Markus Sabadello *[@Peacekeeper](https://twitter.com/Peacekeeper) \<markus@projectdanube.org\>*
* **[Dealing with key loss in digital identity systems](dealing_with_key_loss_in_digital_identity.md)** - by Christian Lundkvist - *[@ChrisLundkvist](https://twitter.com/chrislundkvist) \<christian.lundkvist@consensys.net>*
* **[Decentralized Authentication with Blockchain Auth](Decentralized-Authentication-with-Blockchain-Auth.md)** - by Ryan Shea *[@ryaneshea](https://twitter.com/ryaneshea) \<ryan@onename.com\>*
* **[Decentralized Cooperation Needs Decentralized Reputation](DecentralizedCooperationNeedsDecentralizedReputation.md)** - by Noah Thorp *[@noahthorp](https://twitter.com/noahthorp) \<noah@citizencode.io\>*
* **[Distributed multi-ledger model for financial industry](DistributedMulti-ledgerModelForFinancialIndustry.md)** - by Pavel Kravchenko *[@kravchenkopo](https://twitter.com/kravchenkopo) \<kravchenkopo@gmail.com\>*
* **[Distributed Receptor-Based Computing](Distributed_Receptor-Based_Computing.md)** - by Arthur Brock - *[@ArtBrock](https://twitter.com/artbrock) \<artbrock@gmail.com>*
* **[Distributed Trust Systems and the Kenyesian Beauty Contest](Distributed-Trust-Systems-and-the-Kenyesian-Beauty-Contest.md)** - by Joel Dietz *[@fractastical](https://twitter.com/fractastical) \<jdietz@gmail.com\>*
* **[First Encounters with PGP](FirstEncountersWithPGP.md)** - by Kiara Robles *[@anarchoass](https://twitter.com/anarchoass) \<kiara.robles@gmail.com\>*
* **[Hierarchical Deterministic Keys: BIP32 & Beyond](hierarchical-deterministic-keys--bip32-and-beyond.md)** - by Christopher Allen *[@ChristopherA](https://twitter.com/ChristopherA) \<ChristopherA@LifeWithAlacrity.com\>* & Shannon Appelcline *[@Appelcline](https://twitter.com/Appelcline) \<ShannonA@skotos.net\>*
* **[Identity, Guidance and Situational Awareness](Identity_Guidance_and_Situational_Awareness.md)** - by Matthew Schutte *[@MatthewJosef](https://twitter.com/matthewjosef) \<matt@calabs.org\>*
* **[Key revocation of lost and stolen keys](Key-revokation-of-lost-and-stolen-keys.md)** - by Martin Koeppelmann *[@koeppelmann](https://twitter.com/koeppelmann) \<martin.koeppelmann@consensys.net \>*
* **[Key Transparency for End Users](key-transparency-for-end-users.md)** — by Joseph Bonneau *[@JosephBonneau](https://twitter.com/josephbonneau) \<jbonneau@cs.stanford.edu\>*
* **[Lightning Network and Web of Trust](lightning-network-and-web-of-trust.md)** — by Joseph Poon *\<joseph@lightning.network\>*
* **[Linked Local Names](linked-local-names.md)** — by Christopher Allen *[@ChristopherA](https://twitter.com/ChristopherA) \<ChristopherA@LifeWithAlacrity.com\>*
* **[PGP Paradigm](PGP-Paradigm.pdf)** - by Jon Callas - *[@JonCallas](https://twitter.com/joncallas) \<jon@crypto.expert>* & Phil Zimmerman - *\<prz@mit.edu\>*
* **[PKI Tools in EVM-based blockchains](pki_tools_in_evm_blockchains.md)** - by ChristianLundkvist - *[@ChrisLundkvist](https://twitter.com/chrislundkvist) \<christian.lundkvist@consensys.net>*
* **[Progressive Trust](progressive-trust.md)** - by Christopher Allen *[@ChristopherA](https://twitter.com/ChristopherA) \<ChristopherA@LifeWithAlacrity.com\>*
* **[Real life application of WoT: Refugee Use Case](refugee-use-case.md)** - by Alicia Carmona *\<alicia.carmona@id2020.org\>*
* **[Reputation and the Real World](ReputationAndTheRealWorld.md)** - by Randy Farmer *[@FRandallFarmer](https://twitter.com/FRandallFarmer) \<randy.farmer@pobox.com\>*
* **[Schnorr Signatures: An Overview](Schnorr-Signatures--An-Overview.md)** - by Christopher Allen *[@ChristopherA](https://twitter.com/ChristopherA) \<ChristopherA@LifeWithAlacrity.com\>* & Shannon Appelcline *[@Appelcline](https://twitter.com/Appelcline) \<ShannonA@skotos.net\>*
* **[Secret Handshake: Key Exchange as a Capability System](key-exchange-as-capability-system.md)** - by Dominic Tarr *[@DominicTarr](https://twitter.com/DominicTarr) \<dominic.tarr@gmail.com\>*
* **[Secure Naming on the Blockchain](Secure-Naming-on-the-Blockchain.md)** - by Muneeb Ali *[@muneeb](https://twitter.com/muneeb) \<muneeb@onename.com\>* and Ryan Shea *[@ryaneshea](https://twitter.com/ryaneshea) \<ryan@onename.com\>*
* **[Selective Disclosure of Identity with Hierarchical Deterministic Keys and JSON Web Tokens](Selective-Disclosure-of-Identity.md)** - by Ryan Shea *[@ryaneshea](https://twitter.com/ryaneshea) \<ryan@onename.com\>*
* **[The Naming of Things](The-Naming-of-Things.txt)** - by Matthew Schutte *[@MatthewJosef](https://twitter.com/matthewjosef) \<matt@calabs.org\>*
* **[Thin Clients](thin-clients.md)** - by Greg Slepak *[@TaoEffect](https://twitter.com/TaoEffect) \<hi@okturtles.com\>*
* **[Trust Exchange: An Architecture for a Permanent Open Trust Network](Trust-Exchange-An-Architecture-for-a-Permanent-Open-Trust-Network.md)** - by Harlan T. Wood *[@HarlanTWood](https://twitter.com/harlantwood) \<h@rlan.me \>*
* **[Web of Trust with Blockchain IDs](Web-of-Trust-with-Blockchain-IDs.md)** - by Ryan Shea *[@ryaneshea](https://twitter.com/ryaneshea) \<ryan@onename.com\>*
* **[White Papers, Specifications & Proofs of Concept](white-papers--specifications---and-proof-of-concept-code.md)** - by Christopher Allen *[@ChristopherA](https://twitter.com/ChristopherA) \<ChristopherA@LifeWithAlacrity.com\>*
* **[XDI Link Contracts: An Overview](xdi-link-contracts.md)** - by Drummond Reed *[@DrummondReed](https://twitter.com/DrummondReed) \<drummond@respect.network\>*

We ask that participants use this repository's [Issues](https://github.com/WebOfTrustInfo/rebooting-the-web-of-trust/issues) pages for comments and questions. We also invite [Pull Requests](https://github.com/WebOfTrustInfo/rebooting-the-web-of-trust/pulls) with clarifications and additional links.

### Gitter

We will be using Gitter for chat during this event:

[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/WebOfTrustInfo/rebooting-the-web-of-trust](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/WebOfTrustInfo/rebooting-the-web-of-trust?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

Commit message:

Added no license to copy or reuse topics

topics-and-advance-readings/README.md, after:

Topics & Advance Readings
=========================

In advance of the [Rebooting the Web-of-Trust DesignShop](https://github.com/WebOfTrustInfo/rebooting-the-web-of-trust) on November 3rd & 4th, all participants were requested to submit a 1 or 2 page topics paper to be shared with other attendees on either:
* A specific problem that you'd like to solve with a web-of-trust solution, and why current solutions (pgp or ca-based pki) can't address the problem?
* A specific solution related to the web-of-trust that you'd like others to use or contribute to?

The topic papers submitted were:

* **[Attempts at common terminology for digital identity systems](shared_terminology_for_digital_identity_systems.md)** - by Christian Lundkvist - *[@ChrisLundkvist](https://twitter.com/chrislundkvist) \<christian.lundkvist@consensys.net>*
* **[Authorities vs. Peers: Pain Points in Security](authorities-vs-peers--pain-points-in-security.md)** - by Christopher Allen *[@ChristopherA](https://twitter.com/ChristopherA) \<ChristopherA@LifeWithAlacrity.com\>* & Shannon Appelcline *[@Appelcline](https://twitter.com/Appelcline) \<ShannonA@skotos.net\>*
* **[Avoiding Confused Deputy Attack Using Capabilities](AvoidingConfusedDeputyAttackUsingCapabilities.md)** - by Tyler Close *\<tyler.close@gmail.com\>*
* **[Binding Identity in a Decentralized System](binding-identity-in-decentralized-system.md)** - Wayne Thayer *[@WThayer](https://twitter.com/wthayer) \<wthayer@gmail.com\>*
* **[Blockchain-based Trust for Software Components](code-and-file-signing.adoc)** - by Sean Gilligan *[@msgilligan](https://twitter.com/msgilligan) \<sean@msgilligan.com\>*
* **[Blockchain Tech Opportunities in the Web-of-Trust](blockchain-opportunities.txt)** - by Peter Todd *[@PeterToddBTC](https://twitter.com/PeterToddBTC) \<pete@petertodd.org\>*
* **[Building a Web of Trust for E-commerce](decentralized_e-commerce.md)** - by Michael Folkson *[@michaelfolkson](https://twitter.com/michaelfolkson) \<michaelfolkson@gmail.com\>*
* **[Cool hack with XDI graphs, blockstore, link contracts, and cryptographic identifiers](cool-hack-xdi-blockstore-bip32.md)** - by Markus Sabadello *[@Peacekeeper](https://twitter.com/Peacekeeper) \<markus@projectdanube.org\>*
* **[Dealing with key loss in digital identity systems](dealing_with_key_loss_in_digital_identity.md)** - by Christian Lundkvist - *[@ChrisLundkvist](https://twitter.com/chrislundkvist) \<christian.lundkvist@consensys.net>*
* **[Decentralized Authentication with Blockchain Auth](Decentralized-Authentication-with-Blockchain-Auth.md)** - by Ryan Shea *[@ryaneshea](https://twitter.com/ryaneshea) \<ryan@onename.com\>*
* **[Decentralized Cooperation Needs Decentralized Reputation](DecentralizedCooperationNeedsDecentralizedReputation.md)** - by Noah Thorp *[@noahthorp](https://twitter.com/noahthorp) \<noah@citizencode.io\>*
* **[Distributed multi-ledger model for financial industry](DistributedMulti-ledgerModelForFinancialIndustry.md)** - by Pavel Kravchenko *[@kravchenkopo](https://twitter.com/kravchenkopo) \<kravchenkopo@gmail.com\>*
* **[Distributed Receptor-Based Computing](Distributed_Receptor-Based_Computing.md)** - by Arthur Brock - *[@ArtBrock](https://twitter.com/artbrock) \<artbrock@gmail.com>*
* **[Distributed Trust Systems and the Kenyesian Beauty Contest](Distributed-Trust-Systems-and-the-Kenyesian-Beauty-Contest.md)** - by Joel Dietz *[@fractastical](https://twitter.com/fractastical) \<jdietz@gmail.com\>*
* **[First Encounters with PGP](FirstEncountersWithPGP.md)** - by Kiara Robles *[@anarchoass](https://twitter.com/anarchoass) \<kiara.robles@gmail.com\>*
* **[Hierarchical Deterministic Keys: BIP32 & Beyond](hierarchical-deterministic-keys--bip32-and-beyond.md)** - by Christopher Allen *[@ChristopherA](https://twitter.com/ChristopherA) \<ChristopherA@LifeWithAlacrity.com\>* & Shannon Appelcline *[@Appelcline](https://twitter.com/Appelcline) \<ShannonA@skotos.net\>*
* **[Identity, Guidance and Situational Awareness](Identity_Guidance_and_Situational_Awareness.md)** - by Matthew Schutte *[@MatthewJosef](https://twitter.com/matthewjosef) \<matt@calabs.org\>*
* **[Key revocation of lost and stolen keys](Key-revokation-of-lost-and-stolen-keys.md)** - by Martin Koeppelmann *[@koeppelmann](https://twitter.com/koeppelmann) \<martin.koeppelmann@consensys.net \>*
* **[Key Transparency for End Users](key-transparency-for-end-users.md)** — by Joseph Bonneau *[@JosephBonneau](https://twitter.com/josephbonneau) \<jbonneau@cs.stanford.edu\>*
* **[Lightning Network and Web of Trust](lightning-network-and-web-of-trust.md)** — by Joseph Poon *\<joseph@lightning.network\>*
* **[Linked Local Names](linked-local-names.md)** — by Christopher Allen *[@ChristopherA](https://twitter.com/ChristopherA) \<ChristopherA@LifeWithAlacrity.com\>*
* **[PGP Paradigm](PGP-Paradigm.pdf)** - by Jon Callas - *[@JonCallas](https://twitter.com/joncallas) \<jon@crypto.expert>* & Phil Zimmerman - *\<prz@mit.edu\>*
* **[PKI Tools in EVM-based blockchains](pki_tools_in_evm_blockchains.md)** - by ChristianLundkvist - *[@ChrisLundkvist](https://twitter.com/chrislundkvist) \<christian.lundkvist@consensys.net>*
* **[Progressive Trust](progressive-trust.md)** - by Christopher Allen *[@ChristopherA](https://twitter.com/ChristopherA) \<ChristopherA@LifeWithAlacrity.com\>*
* **[Real life application of WoT: Refugee Use Case](refugee-use-case.md)** - by Alicia Carmona *\<alicia.carmona@id2020.org\>*
* **[Reputation and the Real World](ReputationAndTheRealWorld.md)** - by Randy Farmer *[@FRandallFarmer](https://twitter.com/FRandallFarmer) \<randy.farmer@pobox.com\>*
* **[Schnorr Signatures: An Overview](Schnorr-Signatures--An-Overview.md)** - by Christopher Allen *[@ChristopherA](https://twitter.com/ChristopherA) \<ChristopherA@LifeWithAlacrity.com\>* & Shannon Appelcline *[@Appelcline](https://twitter.com/Appelcline) \<ShannonA@skotos.net\>*
* **[Secret Handshake: Key Exchange as a Capability System](key-exchange-as-capability-system.md)** - by Dominic Tarr *[@DominicTarr](https://twitter.com/DominicTarr) \<dominic.tarr@gmail.com\>*
* **[Secure Naming on the Blockchain](Secure-Naming-on-the-Blockchain.md)** - by Muneeb Ali *[@muneeb](https://twitter.com/muneeb) \<muneeb@onename.com\>* and Ryan Shea *[@ryaneshea](https://twitter.com/ryaneshea) \<ryan@onename.com\>*
* **[Selective Disclosure of Identity with Hierarchical Deterministic Keys and JSON Web Tokens](Selective-Disclosure-of-Identity.md)** - by Ryan Shea *[@ryaneshea](https://twitter.com/ryaneshea) \<ryan@onename.com\>*
* **[The Naming of Things](The-Naming-of-Things.txt)** - by Matthew Schutte *[@MatthewJosef](https://twitter.com/matthewjosef) \<matt@calabs.org\>*
* **[Thin Clients](thin-clients.md)** - by Greg Slepak *[@TaoEffect](https://twitter.com/TaoEffect) \<hi@okturtles.com\>*
* **[Trust Exchange: An Architecture for a Permanent Open Trust Network](Trust-Exchange-An-Architecture-for-a-Permanent-Open-Trust-Network.md)** - by Harlan T. Wood *[@HarlanTWood](https://twitter.com/harlantwood) \<h@rlan.me \>*
* **[Web of Trust with Blockchain IDs](Web-of-Trust-with-Blockchain-IDs.md)** - by Ryan Shea *[@ryaneshea](https://twitter.com/ryaneshea) \<ryan@onename.com\>*
* **[White Papers, Specifications & Proofs of Concept](white-papers--specifications---and-proof-of-concept-code.md)** - by Christopher Allen *[@ChristopherA](https://twitter.com/ChristopherA) \<ChristopherA@LifeWithAlacrity.com\>*
* **[XDI Link Contracts: An Overview](xdi-link-contracts.md)** - by Drummond Reed *[@DrummondReed](https://twitter.com/DrummondReed) \<drummond@respect.network\>*

We ask that participants use this repository's [Issues](https://github.com/WebOfTrustInfo/rebooting-the-web-of-trust/issues) pages for comments and questions. We also invite [Pull Requests](https://github.com/WebOfTrustInfo/rebooting-the-web-of-trust/pulls) with clarifications and additional links.

### LICENSE

Unless otherwise noted, the contents of the files in this directory are the property of each individual author. No grant of license to copy or reuse is made or implied.

### Gitter

We will be using Gitter for chat during this event:

[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/WebOfTrustInfo/rebooting-the-web-of-trust](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/WebOfTrustInfo/rebooting-the-web-of-trust?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)
